# Extended DateTime

> **IMPORTANT:**
>
> Please consider this project as beta release. Breaking changes may not always be documented or logged.

An extension library for Python's built-in datetime class. Providing additional methods to perform common date calculations, and provide attributes related to the object's values.

The goal of this library is to provide convenience methods to a datetime object, reducing the number additional modules and packages needed to perform similar operations.

## Features
* Inherits from datetime, making any object generated by this class compatible with existing code expecting to work with a datetime object.
* Only uses Python's built in libraries. Beneficial to projects attempting to reduce package dependencies.

## Examples
### Adding dates
```python
current_date = ExtendedDateTime(datetime.utcnow())

# equivalent to current_date + timedelta(days=1)
tomorrow = current_date.date_add(days=1) 

# There are even months!
next_month = current_date.date_add(months=1)

# equivalent to `current_date + timedelta(days=365)`, but accounting for leap years
next_year = current_date.date_add(years=1)
```

## Important: Adding years or months
The ability to add years and months assumes the calculation is made from the same starting point. This means if you need to calculate dates multiple months or years into the future or past, that you always use the original object, and alter the the number of months or years provided.

```python
# Good approach to scheduling future dates
starting_date = ExtendedDateTime(2000, 3, 31)

for days_to_add in range(3):
  print(f"{starting_date.date_add(months=days_to_add)}")

# results:
# 2000-03-31 00:00:00
# 2000-04-30 00:00:00
# 2000-05-31 00:00:00

# Incorrect approach
scheduled_date = ExtendedDateTime(2000, 3, 31)

for _ in range(3):
  print(f"{scheduled_date}")
  scheduled_date = scheduled_date.date_add(months=1)
 
# results
# 2000-03-31 00:00:00
# 2000-04-30 00:00:00
# 2000-05-30 00:00:00
```

For the "Good approach" each consecutive date is calculated from the same base or starting date. This allows the function to properly adjust the date only when necassary. If you were making an payment date calculator and the consumer desired to make payments on the last day of the month. This approach will ensure that the payment is always made on the last day of the month.

For the "Incorrect approach" you can see how using the result of the previous calculation affects each following calculation. If you were to calculate more than 12 months, eventually you will see the date adjust to the 28th of each month (February only has 28 days, except in leap years.)
